Naming Things:
  Do your absolute best to not use comments, but to name functions and
  variables meaningfully.

  Variables should be named as nouns. 

  For functions, try to pick a description of the return value.

  noise words to avoid:
      The
      Info
      Data
      Variable
      Object
      Manager

  If you can't name something concisely, it may be time to refactor your Code
  so that things *can* be named simply.

  Make sure the name is pronouncable, and easily searchable

  Consistently use one word for a concept (i.e. decide between get or fetch)

Writing Functions:
  Functions should only do one thing
  
  That thing should be stated in its name
  
  A function is only doing one thing if you can't *meaningfully* extract
  another function from it.
  
  This will cause the function to be short, and to utilize other, short
  functions with clear names.

  Conditionals should be encapsulated in a function, i.e.:
    if (isBirthdayToday) {
      console.log('happy birthday ' + user.name);
    } 
  & the body of a conditional should be a function call (with a
  nice name!)

  Functions should have 2 or fewer arguments. 3 or more only when necessary.
  If a function needs more arguments, they could probably be refactored
  and grouped together as an object.

  Functions should not indent more than a couple of lines -- if more, it's a
  sign that it's probably time to extract.

  Functions should avoid boolean arguments. Just write 2 different functions 
  instead.

  Avoid switch statements -- use classes and polymorphism (?)

  Avoid side-effects whenever possible (changing the state of the system).
  If a function has a side effect, it should return void.
  If a function returns something, it should not have a side-effect.

Don't Repeat Yourself :-)

Leave Early
  instead of if...else-ing all the way til you're checking for something is 
  null, work in reverse -- i.e. do your most basic check first, then work
  backwards to the most complicated.

  i.e. do a Guard Case. If you're looking for the largest something, look for
  the largest things first!

  N.B. this almost always relies on using multiple returns per a given 
  function, which may not be ideal.